EDITORIAL CLOSING: XMPP Newsletter Decemeber 2021 & January 2022 (#1037)
xsf/xmpp.org: content/blog/newsletter_2022-02-05.md

---

> title: The XMPP Newsletter December 2021 & January 2021

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: The XMPP Newsletter December 2021 & January 2022
```

author: emus
date: 2022-02-05
categories: ['Newsletter']
---

> Welcome to the XMPP Newsletter covering the month of December 2021 and January 2021!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Welcome to the XMPP Newsletter covering the month of December 2021 and January 2022!
```

We hope you had a great shift into the new year by now as well as are happy to have you reading the new release! We guess that this episode has caught some weight over the new year's holidays :-)

Many projects and their efforts in the XMPP community are a result of people’s voluntary work. If you are happy with the services and software you may be using, especially throughout the current situation, please consider saying thanks or help these projects!

[Read this Newsletter via our RSS Feed](https://xmpp.org/feeds/all.atom.xml)!

Interested in supporting the Newsletter team? Read more at the bottom.

Other than that — enjoy reading!

### Newsletter translations

Translations of the XMPP Newsletter will be released here (with some delay):

- The French translation appears at [jabberfr.org](https://news.jabberfr.org/category/newsletter/) and [linuxfr.org](https://linuxfr.org/tags/xmpp/public)
- The German translation appears at [anoxinon.de](https://anoxinon.de/blog/)
- The Italian translation appears at [NicFab.it](https://www.nicfab.it/)

> - The Spanish translation appears at TBA

Author: Can we already define how the link would look like?

Another question: Could we link with this rendering to the external ones? For someone clicks French and will be redirected?

There are several articles to the topic  "messenger" at the German site from "[Freie Messenger](https://www.freie-messenger.de/#neuigkeiten-letzte-änderungen)" with a focus on alternatives to WhatsApp, E2EE, interoperability, security/pseudosecurity. Help is welcome, translating the articles to your native language.

[OMEMO was finally integrated in Movim](https://mov.im/?post/pubsub.movim.eu/Movim/end-to-end-encryption-in-movim-omemo-is-finally-there-yudZPP) after 6 long years of discussions. In this article Timothée, Movim developer, explains the general OMEMO architecture, the difficulties encountered while working on the integration in Movim and how they overcame them.

As the [previously announced](https://snikket.org/blog/simply-secure-collaboration/) collaboration between Snikket and Simply Secure ended its first project, they interviewed the project's founder, Matthew Wild, about Snikket's origins and his experience managing open-source projects. Read the interview: [On Getting Things Done: A Conversation with Matthew Wild from Snikket](https://simplysecure.org/blog/on-getting-things-done-a-conversation-with-matthew-wild-from-snikket/).

> Mellium Co-op has published their [Year in Review for 2021 and January 2022](https://opencollective.com/mellium/updates/mellium-year-in-review-2021) and the [Dev Communiqué for December 2021](https://opencollective.com/mellium/updates/dev-communique-for-december-2021).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mellium Co-op has published their [Year in Review for 2021](https://opencollective.com/mellium/updates/mellium-year-in-review-2021) and the [Dev Communiqué for December 2021](https://opencollective.com/mellium/updates/dev-communique-for-december-2021) and [January 2022](https://opencollective.com/mellium/updates/dev-communique-for-january-2022).
```

XMPP Office Hours: Fabian Sauter presented his [adventures in developing an XMPP Client](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bceu6E7c7GM) for Windows (Universal Windows Platform (UWP)) in December.

XMPP has been mentioned in a [German public TV](https://youtu.be/DdIwus87eLM?t=844) [DE] show in the context of data protection.

## Articles

JMP.chat released two blog posts. [The first](https://blog.jmp.chat/b/2022-jabber-xmpp-from-sms) details a feature of the Soprani.ca project's Cheogram system that allows SMS users to contact (or call!) any XMPP address. [Their Newsletter](https://blog.jmp.chat/b/january-newsletter-2022) also announces a partnership with Snikket for hosting, as well as a preview of worldwide calling rates as they prepare to launch that feature soon.

There are several articles to the topic  "messenger" at the German site from "[Freie Messenger](https://www.freie-messenger.de/#neuigkeiten-letzte-änderungen)" with focus on alternatives to WhatsApp, E2EE, interoperability, security/pseudosecurity. You may help translating them to your native language.

> [OMEMO was finally integrated in Movim](https://mov.im/?post/pubsub.movim.eu/Movim/end-to-end-encryption-in-movim-omemo-is-finally-there-yudZPP) after 6 long years of discussions. In this article we are explaining what is the general OMEMO architecture what were the difficulties encountered when doing the integration in Movim and how we overcame them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[OMEMO was finally integrated in Movim](https://mov.im/?post/pubsub.movim.eu/Movim/end-to-end-encryption-in-movim-omemo-is-finally-there-yudZPP) after 6 long years of discussions. In this article Timothée, Movim developer, explains the general OMEMO architecture, the difficulties encountered while working on the integration in Movim and how they overcame them.
```

As the [previously announced](https://snikket.org/blog/simply-secure-collaboration/) collaboration between Snikket and Simply Secure ended its first project, they interviewed the project's founder, Matthew Wild, about Snikket's origins and his experience managing open-source projects. Read the interview: [On Getting Things Done: A Conversation with Matthew Wild from Snikket](https://simplysecure.org/blog/on-getting-things-done-a-conversation-with-matthew-wild-from-snikket/).

> Mellium Co-op has published their [Year in Review for 2021](https://opencollective.com/mellium/updates/mellium-year-in-review-2021) and the [Dev Communiqué for December 2021](https://opencollective.com/mellium/updates/dev-communique-for-december-2021).

Reviewer: "and for [January 2022](https://opencollective.com/mellium/updates/dev-communique-for-january-2022)]" could be added at the end, sorry for the confusion.

Author: f41ce92397b1e9ed037405a84d0f35234edc1d83

MongooseIM writes about [Dynamic XMPP Domains in their solutions](https://www.erlang-solutions.com/blog/dynamic-xmpp-domains-in-mongooseim/)

> XMPP passes in a [congested network](https://blog.lewman.com/internet-messaging-versus-congested-network.html).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Andrew Lewman trials various messaging protocols over a congested network, and makes a [discovery about XMPP performance](https://blog.lewman.com/internet-messaging-versus-congested-network.html) in such situations.
```

> A short introduction to the [Quicksy Android client](https://ravidwivedi.in/posts/quicksy-app/index.html)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ravi Dwivedi demonstrates that "freedom and privacy can be convenient too" in their short introduction to the [Quicksy Android client](https://ravidwivedi.in/posts/quicksy-app/index.html)
```

> The German Linux Magazin has been [testing free instant messaging clients](https://www.linux-magazin.de/ausgaben/2022/02/bitparade/) for Linux in their latest printout and nearby other messenger, reviewed the [Gajim desktop client](https://gajim.org/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The German Linux Magazin has been [testing free instant messaging clients](https://www.linux-magazin.de/ausgaben/2022/02/bitparade/) for Linux in their latest printout and alongside other messengers, reviewed the [Gajim desktop client](https://gajim.org/).
```

> A critic on [XMPP server security](https://bishopfox.com/blog/xmpp-underappreciated-attack-surface

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An analysis of the dangers of misconfigured XMPP servers in this piece about [XMPP server security](https://bishopfox.com/blog/xmpp-underappreciated-attack-surface
```

) by Bishop Fox.

## Software news

### Clients and applications

[Gajim development news](https://gajim.org/post/2022-01-22-development-news-december-january/): Work on Gajim 1.4 is making big steps forward! After nine months of developing Gajim’s new main window, the code was finally ready to be merged into the master branch. This enables automatic builds of nightly versions for Linux and Windows.

> [monocles chat](https://f-droid.org/de/packages/de.monocles.chat/) (a fork of Conversations and Blabber.im) will get OTR in the next release. The client also only allows connections to XMPP servers with up to date SSL configurations and does not offer fallback SSL connections to avoid data leaks. Nevertheless it is compatible with every current XMPP account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[monocles chat](https://f-droid.org/de/packages/de.monocles.chat/) (a fork of Conversations and Blabber.im) will get OTR support in the next release. The client also only allows connections to XMPP servers with up to date SSL configurations and does not offer fallback SSL connections to avoid data leaks. Nevertheless it is compatible with every current XMPP account.
```

A new stable release of [SiskinIM 7.0.1 has been published](https://github.com/tigase/siskin-im/releases/tag/7.0.1) which includes sending unencrypted messages in single chats with default encryption for OMEMO and presenting automatic file download size limit.

## Servers

[Openfire 4.7.0](https://discourse.igniterealtime.org/t/openfire-4-7-0-has-been-released/91268) has been released. This release is the first non-patch release in more than a year, which brings a healthy amount of new features, as well as bug fixes. Highlights of this release include extensively improved clustering support, particularly around Multi-User Chat functionality, which should benefit high-volume environments. Previously also [Openfire 4.5.5](https://discourse.igniterealtime.org/t/openfire-4-6-6-and-4-5-5-releases-log4j-only-changes/91139), [Openfire 4.6.5](https://discourse.igniterealtime.org/t/openfire-4-6-5-released/91108) and [Openfire 4.6.6](https://discourse.igniterealtime.org/t/openfire-4-6-6-and-4-5-5-releases-log4j-only-changes/91139) have been released.

> [Prosody 0.11.13](https://blog.prosody.im/prosody-0.11.13-released/) has been released. Since december, the new prosody releases brought some fixes to PEP to control memory usage, a security fix that addresses a denial-of-service vulnerability in Prosody’s mod_websocket, and a fix for a memory leak. Previously [Prosody 0.11.11](https://blog.prosody.im/prosody-0.11.11-released/] and [Prosody 0.11.12](https://blog.prosody.im/prosody-0.11.12-released/) were released, too.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Prosody 0.11.13](https://blog.prosody.im/prosody-0.11.13-released/) has been released. Since December, new Prosody releases brought some fixes to PEP to control memory usage, a security fix that addresses a denial-of-service vulnerability in Prosody’s mod_websocket, and a fix for a memory leak. Previously [Prosody 0.11.11](https://blog.prosody.im/prosody-0.11.11-released/] and [Prosody 0.11.12](https://blog.prosody.im/prosody-0.11.12-released/) were released, too.
```

[ejabberd 21.12](https://www.process-one.net/blog/ejabberd-21-12/) has been released. The new ejabberd 21.12 release comes after five months of work, contains more than one hundred changes, many of them are major improvements or features, and several bug fixes: PubSub improvements, new mod_conversejs, and support for MUC Hats ([XEP-0317](https://xmpp.org/extensions/xep-0317.html)).

[Jackal](https://github.com/ortuman/jackal), an XMPP server written in Go, had [version 0.56.0](https://github.com/ortuman/jackal/releases) released.

> New beta builds for the Snikket server](https://github.com/snikket-im/snikket-server/tags) have been published this month.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Snikket announced their [January 2022 server release](https://snikket.org/blog/jan-2022-server-release/), this includes a [security fix](https://snikket.org/blog/snikket-jan-2021-security-release/) announced earlier in January. The primary new feature in this release is account import/export functionality, the final part of the [XMPP account portability project](https://docs.modernxmpp.org/projects/portability/) funded by NGI DAPSI.
```

## Libraries

> The [Mellium Dev Communiqué for January 2022](https://opencollective.com/mellium/updates/dev-communique-for-january-2022) has been released. Major updates this month include support for in-band bytestreams and integration testing against aioxmpp. Last month Mellium took a bit of a break, but a short update was released nevertheless. The December update can be found [here](https://opencollective.com/mellium/updates/dev-communique-for-december-2021).

Reviewer: Oops, duplicated. Remove this!

Author: f41ce92397b1e9ed037405a84d0f35234edc1d83 but it does not belong into Library, correct?

    -   This extension defines a new PubSub node attribute to specify the type of payload.

-   [Message Replies](https://xmpp.org/extensions/inbox/replies.html)
    -   This document defines a way to indicate that a message is a reply to a previous message.

### New

-   No new XEPs this month.

### Deferred

If an experimental XEP is not updated for more than twelve months, it will be moved off Experimental to Deferred. If there is another update, it will put the XEP back onto Experimental.

-   No XEPs deferred this month.

### Updated

-   Version 1.1.0 of [XEP-0363](https://xmpp.org/extensions/xep-0363.html) (HTTP File Upload)
    -   Filename size in bytes.
    -   Headers MUST be included in the PUT request.
    -   Headers considered opaque.
    -   Servers may want to sign headers, in security implications.
    -   Allow header case insensitivity, multiple times the same header, and preserve the order in the HTTP request. (egp, mb)
    
-   Version 0.4.0 of [XEP-0353](https://xmpp.org/extensions/xep-0353.html) (Jingle Message Initiation)
    -   Rework whole spec, namespace bump
    -   Add new <finish/> message

>     -   Add dependency on ,  and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    -   Add dependency on XEP-0280, XEP-0313 and XEP-0334
```

---
title: The XMPP Newsletter December 2021 & January 2021
author: emus
date: 2022-02-05
categories: ['Newsletter']
---

Welcome to the XMPP Newsletter covering the month of December 2021 and January 2021!

We hope you had a great shift into the new year by now as well as are happy to have you reading the new release! We guess that this episode has caught some weight over the new year's holidays :-)

> Many projects and their efforts in the XMPP community are a result of people’s voluntary work. If you are happy with the services and software you may be using, especially throughout the current situation, please consider to say thanks or help these projects!

Reviewer 2: Minor grammar
```suggestion
Many projects and their efforts in the XMPP community are a result of people’s voluntary work. If you are happy with the services and software you may be using, especially throughout the current situation, please consider saying thanks or help these projects!
```

[Read this Newsletter via our RSS Feed](https://xmpp.org/feeds/all.atom.xml)!

Interested in supporting the Newsletter team? Read more at the bottom.

Other than that — enjoy reading!

### Newsletter translations

Translations of the XMPP Newsletter will be released here (with some delay):

- The French translation appears at [jabberfr.org](https://news.jabberfr.org/category/newsletter/) and [linuxfr.org](https://linuxfr.org/tags/xmpp/public)
- The German translation appears at [anoxinon.de](https://anoxinon.de/blog/)
- The Italian translation appears at [NicFab.it](https://www.nicfab.it/)
- The Spanish translation appears at TBA

Many thanks to the translators and their work! This is a great help to spread the news! Please join them in their work or start over with any another language!

## XSF Announcements

> - The XSF is planning to participate the [Google Summer of Code 2022 (GSoC)](https://xmpp.org/community/gsoc-2022/). If you are interested in participating as a student, mentor or as project in general please [add your ideas and reach out to us](https://wiki.xmpp.org/web/Google_Summer_of_Code_2022)!

Reviewer 2: Minor grammar
```suggestion
- The XSF is planning to participate in the [Google Summer of Code 2022 (GSoC)](https://xmpp.org/community/gsoc-2022/). If you are interested in participating as a student, mentor or as a project in general, please [add your ideas and reach out to us](https://wiki.xmpp.org/web/Google_Summer_of_Code_2022)!
```

[Berlin XMPP Meetup (remote)](https://mov.im/?node/pubsub.movim.eu/berlin-xmpp-meetup): Monthly Meeting of XMPP Enthusiasts in Berlin - always 2nd Wednesday of the month.

## Videos

Thilo Molitor (developer of Monal) [held a talk](https://xmpp-meetup.in-berlin.de/talks/monal.mp4) (DE) about Monal's development.

XMPP Office Hours: Fabian Sauter presented his [adventures in developing an XMPP Client](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bceu6E7c7GM) for Windows (Universal Windows Platform (UWP)) in December.

XMPP has been mentioned in a [German public TV](https://youtu.be/DdIwus87eLM?t=844) [DE] show in the context of data protection.

## Articles

JMP.chat released two blog posts. [The first](https://blog.jmp.chat/b/2022-jabber-xmpp-from-sms) details a feature of the Soprani.ca project's Cheogram system that allows SMS users to contact (or call!) any XMPP address. [Their Newsletter](https://blog.jmp.chat/b/january-newsletter-2022) also announces a partnership with Snikket for hosting, as well as a preview of worldwide calling rates as they prepare to launch that feature soon.

> There are several articles to the topic  "messenger" at the German site from "[Freie Messenger](https://www.freie-messenger.de/#neuigkeiten-letzte-änderungen)" with focus on alternatives to WhatsApp, E2EE, interoperability, security/pseudosecurity. You may help translating them to your native language.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are several articles to the topic  "messenger" at the German site from "[Freie Messenger](https://www.freie-messenger.de/#neuigkeiten-letzte-änderungen)" with a focus on alternatives to WhatsApp, E2EE, interoperability, security/pseudosecurity. Help is welcome, translating the articles to your native language.
```

Mellium Co-op has published their [Year in Review for 2021 and January 2022](https://opencollective.com/mellium/updates/mellium-year-in-review-2021) and the [Dev Communiqué for December 2021](https://opencollective.com/mellium/updates/dev-communique-for-december-2021).

MongooseIM writes about [Dynamic XMPP Domains in their solutions](https://www.erlang-solutions.com/blog/dynamic-xmpp-domains-in-mongooseim/)

Andrew Lewman trials various messaging protocols over a congested network, and makes a [discovery about XMPP performance](https://blog.lewman.com/internet-messaging-versus-congested-network.html) in such situations.

Ravi Dwivedi demonstrates that "freedom and privacy can be convenient too" in their short introduction to the [Quicksy Android client](https://ravidwivedi.in/posts/quicksy-app/index.html)

> The German Linux Magazin has been [testing free instant messaging clients](https://www.linux-magazin.de/ausgaben/2022/02/bitparade/) for Linux in their latest printout and alongside other messengers, reviewed the [Gajim desktop client](https://gajim.org/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The German Linux Magazin has been [testing free instant messaging clients](https://www.linux-magazin.de/ausgaben/2022/02/bitparade/) for Linux in their latest printout and, alongside other messengers, reviewed the [Gajim desktop client](https://gajim.org/).
```

> An analysis of the dangers of misconfigured XMPP servers in this piece about [XMPP server security](https://bishopfox.com/blog/xmpp-underappreciated-attack-surface
> ) by Bishop Fox.

Reviewer 2: Fixing a broken Markdown link:

```suggestion
An analysis of the dangers of misconfigured XMPP servers in this piece about [XMPP server security](https://bishopfox.com/blog/xmpp-underappreciated-attack-surface) by Bishop Fox.
```

A new stable release of [SiskinIM 7.0.1 has been published](https://github.com/tigase/siskin-im/releases/tag/7.0.1) which includes sending unencrypted messages in single chats with default encryption for OMEMO and presenting automatic file download size limit.

## Servers

[Openfire 4.7.0](https://discourse.igniterealtime.org/t/openfire-4-7-0-has-been-released/91268) has been released (having their [Beta released](https://discourse.igniterealtime.org/t/openfire-4-7-0-beta-hazelcast-plugin-2-6-0-releases/91087) before). This release is the first non-patch release in more than a year, which brings a healthy amount of new features, as well as bug fixes. Highlights of this release include extensively improved clustering support, particularly around Multi-User Chat functionality, which should benefit high-volume environments. Previously also [Openfire 4.5.5](https://discourse.igniterealtime.org/t/openfire-4-6-6-and-4-5-5-releases-log4j-only-changes/91139), [Openfire 4.6.5](https://discourse.igniterealtime.org/t/openfire-4-6-5-released/91108) and [Openfire 4.6.6](https://discourse.igniterealtime.org/t/openfire-4-6-6-and-4-5-5-releases-log4j-only-changes/91139) have been released.

> [Prosody 0.11.13](https://blog.prosody.im/prosody-0.11.13-released/) has been released. Since December, new Prosody releases brought some fixes to PEP to control memory usage, a security fix that addresses a denial-of-service vulnerability in Prosody’s mod_websocket, and a fix for a memory leak. Previously [Prosody 0.11.11](https://blog.prosody.im/prosody-0.11.11-released/] and [Prosody 0.11.12](https://blog.prosody.im/prosody-0.11.12-released/) were released, too.

Reviewer 2: Fixing broken Markdown link
```suggestion
[Prosody 0.11.13](https://blog.prosody.im/prosody-0.11.13-released/) has been released. Since December, new Prosody releases brought some fixes to PEP to control memory usage, a security fix that addresses a denial-of-service vulnerability in Prosody’s mod_websocket, and a fix for a memory leak. Previously [Prosody 0.11.11](https://blog.prosody.im/prosody-0.11.11-released/) and [Prosody 0.11.12](https://blog.prosody.im/prosody-0.11.12-released/) were released, too.
```

[ejabberd 21.12](https://www.process-one.net/blog/ejabberd-21-12/) has been released. The new ejabberd 21.12 release comes after five months of work, contains more than one hundred changes, many of them are major improvements or features, and several bug fixes: PubSub improvements, new mod_conversejs, and support for MUC Hats ([XEP-0317](https://xmpp.org/extensions/xep-0317.html)).

[Jackal](https://github.com/ortuman/jackal), an XMPP server written in Go, had [version 0.56.0](https://github.com/ortuman/jackal/releases) released.

Snikket announced their [January 2022 server release](https://snikket.org/blog/jan-2022-server-release/), this includes a [security fix](https://snikket.org/blog/snikket-jan-2021-security-release/) announced earlier in January. The primary new feature in this release is account import/export functionality, the final part of the [XMPP account portability project](https://docs.modernxmpp.org/projects/portability/) funded by NGI DAPSI.

> ## Libraries
> 
> No news has reached us :-(
> 

Reviewer 2: I suggest to remove this section, instead of including it as a negative.

```suggestion
```
